PD-1464 / 25.10 / Pd 1464 expand security content with web locations of software calls (#3565)
truenas/documentation: content/Solutions/Optimizations/Security.md

|:-------------:|:--------:|:------------:|:---------------------------------------:|:---------:|:--------:|
|     80/443    |    TCP   |  HTTP/HTTPS  | Software updates and Pro-active support |  Optional |   Open   |
|     25/465    |    TCP   | Sendmail/TLS |          Send emails for alerts         |     No    | Outgoing |
|      123      |    TCP   |      NTP     |       Network Time synchronization      |    Yes    | Outgoing |
|      514      |    TCP   |    Syslog    |      Logging of alerts and changes      |     No    | Outgoing |
{{< /truetable >}}

## Callouts to Websites

Some elements of TrueNAS make external callouts to online locations.
Manage these callout addresses as part of your general network configuration (i.e., TrueNAS and router allow/deny hosts, etc.) to further secure your system.
Callouts are grouped into several classes.

{{< expand "All TrueNAS releases callouts" "v" >}}
* Update to https://update-master.ixsystems.com/ or https://update.ixsystems.com/
* Enterprise Proactive support to https://support-proxy.ixsystems.com
* Email to the address set in the TrueNAS UI as configured for administration users, and for alerts

> TrueNAS uses Sentry to "phone home" system crash data for analytics to https://7ac3e76fe2a94f77a58e1c38ea6b42d9@sentry.ixsystems.com/4

Reviewer: Trying to resurrect previous lost review comment about clarifying this entry:
```suggestion
TrueNAS uses Sentry to gather and send system crash data for analytics to https://7ac3e76fe2a94f77a58e1c38ea6b42d9@sentry.ixsystems.com/4
```

TrueNAS uses Sentry to "phone home" general system statictics for analytics to https://7ac3e76fe2a94f77a58e1c38ea6b42d9@sentry.ixsystems.com/4
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "TrueNAS FreeBSD-based systems plugin callouts" "v" >}}
* Official plugins list to https://github.com/freenas/iocate-ix-plugins
* Community plugins list to https://github.com/ix-plugin-hub/iocate-plugin-index

Each plugin JSON excludes its own download and pkg update URL.
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "TrueNAS FreeBSD-based systems jail callouts" "v" >}}
* Upstream FreeBSD pkg updates to pkg.freebsd.org
* Upstream FreeBSD current releases to https://download.freebsd.org/releases/amd64/
* Upstream archived FreeBSD releases for manual iocage fetch downloads to https://frp-archive.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD-Archive/old-releases/amd64/
* Python package index for pip updates to pypi.org

Portsnap is deprecated, see https://lists.freebsd.org/pipermail/freebsd-ports/2020-Augus/119098.html
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "Truenas Debian Linux-based systems app callouts" "v" >}}
* Graphic to https://media.sys.truenas.net
* Docker hub registry to https://index.docker.io/v1

> TruNAS apps clone images from https://github.com/truenas/apps.

Reviewer 2: Typo: TruNAS -> TrueNAS

Some apps pull from other registries like ghcr.io and quay.io.
{{< /expand >}}

{{< expand "TrueNAS Debian Linux-based systems chart callouts" "v" >}}
* Register all necessary components (fixed https://ixsystems.atlassian.net/browse/NAS-130717)
* When ng-mocks get view child support see https://github.com/help-me-mom/ng-mocks/issues/8634

> {{< /expand >}}

Author: removed in the next commit.

{{< expand "TrueNAS Debian Linux-based system other callouts" "v" >}}
* Feedback Oauth URL to https://support-proxy.ixsystems.com/oauth/initiate?origin=
* Feedback User Guide form to https://www.truenas.com/docs/hub/

> * File Jira ticket to https://ixsystems.atlassian.net

Author: removed in the next commit.

* Feedback service private readonly host name to https://feedback.ui.truenas.com

> When usage collection is disabled, anonymous usage statistics consisting of only the software version and total system capacity (e.g. TrueNAS 24.04.0, 55 TB) are still collected but information about the system configuration and usage is not.

Author: Added in next commit

Consult the [TrueNAS Security Advisories](https://security.truenas.com/) site for information about any identified security vulnerabilities in TrueNAS products.
Check back regularly for updates.

## Web Locations and Software Calls

Some elements of TrueNAS make callouts to online locations.
To secure your system, manage these callout in your network configurations.

All TrueNAS releases callouts:
* Update to https://update-master.ixsystems.com/ or https://update.ixsystems.com/
* Enterprise Proactive support to https://support-proxy.ixsystems.com

> * Error parser to https://github.com/angular/angular/blob/master/packages/core/src/util/errors.ts

Reviewer 2: This doesn't look right.  That URL is a code reference, and not a URL that the system reaches out to.

>   Other possible error callouts to https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/10816 as a workaround for https://github.com/angular/angular/issues/56471 

Reviewer 2: Ditto

* Email to the address set in the TrueNAS UI as configured for administration users, and for alerts

TrueNAS open ports are 80 and 443. See [Default Ports]({{< relref "DefaultPorts.md" >}}) or a complete list of assigned ports.

TrueNAS FreeBSD-based systemsplugin callouts:
* Official plugins list to https://github.com/freenas/iocate-ix-plugins
* Community plugins list to https://github.com/ix-plugin-hub/iocate-plugin-index

Each plugin JSON excludes its own download and pkg update URL.

TrueNAS FreeBSD-based systems jail callouts:
* Upstream FreeBSD pkg updates to pkg.freebsd.org
* Upstream FreeBSD current releases to https://download.freebsd.org/releases/amd64/

> * Upstream archived FreeBSD releases for manual iocage fetch downloads to https://frp-archive.freebsd.org/pub/FreeBSD-Archive/old-releases/amd64/

Reviewer 2: Typo: frp should be ftp.
